.TH xjcd 1 "@XRootD_VERSION_STRING@"
.SH NAME
xjcd \- bootstrap JournalCache forwarding proxy configuration for systemd
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBxjcd\fR [\fB--journal\fR \fIPATH\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR...]

\fBxjcd\fR \fBinit\fR [\fB--journal\fR \fIPATH\fR]
    \fB--xroot-port\fR \fIN\fR \fB--https-port\fR \fIN\fR
    \fB--tls-cert\fR \fIPATH\fR \fB--tls-key\fR \fIPATH\fR
    [\fB--install-systemd\fR] [\fB--systemd-unit\fR \fINAME\fR]
    [\fB--lib-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--plugin-suffix\fR \fIN\fR]

\fBxjcd\fR \fBrender\fR

\fBxjcd\fR \fBshow\fR

\fBxjcd\fR \fBvalidate\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBxjcd\fR utility prepares a JournalCache HTTP forwarding proxy deployment.
It writes bootstrap state, XRootD configuration, client plugin snippets, a
systemd \fBEnvironmentFile\fR, and a systemd unit under \fI$journal/.xjc/\fR.
Process startup is left to \fBsystemd\fR; there is no \fBxjcd run\fR command.

Runtime policy (allowlist, redirects, bypass) is stored in
\fI$journal/.xjc/policy.conf\fR and should be edited with \fBxjc\fR(1). That
file is hot-reloaded by running xrootd processes when its mtime changes.

Initial policy is \fIopen\fR: no \fBallow_origin\fR lines are written until
rules are added with \fBxjc\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-journal PATH
Journal cache root directory. May also be set via
.BR XRD_JOURNALCACHE_CACHE .
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print usage and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Create \fI$journal/.xjc/state.conf\fR, render configuration files, and seed
\fI$journal/.xjc/policy.conf\fR if missing. TLS certificate and key paths are
required.
.RS 7
Init options:
.TP
.B \-\-xroot-port N
TCP port for the native XRootD protocol.
.TP
.B \-\-https-port N
TLS port for HTTP/HTTPS (XrdHttp).
.TP
.B \-\-tls-cert PATH
Path to the TLS certificate (written into \fBhttp.cert\fR in \fBxrootd.cf\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-tls-key PATH
Path to the TLS private key (written into \fBhttp.key\fR in \fBxrootd.cf\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-install-systemd
After rendering, install \fI$journal/.xjc/etc/xjcd.service\fR into
\fI/etc/systemd/system/\fR, run \fBsystemctl daemon-reload\fR, and
\fBsystemctl enable \-\-now\fR the unit. Requires root (typically \fBsudo\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-systemd-unit NAME
Systemd unit file name to install (default: \fBxjcd.service\fR). Use a distinct
name when multiple journals run on one host (for example
\fBjournalcache-foo.service\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-lib-dir PATH
Directory containing XRootD plugin shared objects (default: \fI/usr/lib64\fR or
\fI/usr/local/lib\fR on macOS).
.TP
.B \-\-plugin-suffix N
Plugin version suffix in library names (default: \fB5\fR).
.RE
.TP
.B render
Regenerate all files under \fI$journal/.xjc/etc/\fR from
\fI$journal/.xjc/state.conf\fR. Run after editing bootstrap parameters, then
restart the systemd service.
.TP
.B show
Print bootstrap paths, generated config locations, and systemd install hints.
.TP
.B validate
Check journal writability, TLS file presence, and plugin library paths.
.SH GENERATED LAYOUT
.TP
.B $journal/.xjc/state.conf
Persistent bootstrap parameters written by \fBinit\fR.
.TP
.B $journal/.xjc/policy.conf
Hot-reloadable runtime policy; edit with \fBxjc\fR(1).
.TP
.B $journal/.xjc/etc/xrootd.cf
XRootD server configuration for the forwarding proxy.
.TP
.B $journal/.xjc/etc/journalcache-http.ext.conf
JournalCache HTTP ext handler configuration (\fBforwarding = 1\fR).
.TP
.B $journal/.xjc/etc/client.plugins.d/journalcache.conf
Client plugins loaded by the xrootd/PSS process.
.TP
.B $journal/.xjc/etc/xjcd.env
Environment variables for \fBEnvironmentFile=\fR in systemd.
.TP
.B $journal/.xjc/etc/xjcd.service
Generated systemd unit referencing the paths above.
.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize a journal and install the systemd unit:
.nf
sudo xjcd init \-\-journal /var/tmp/journalcache \\
  \-\-xroot-port 1094 \-\-https-port 8443 \\
  \-\-tls-cert /etc/xrootd/tls.crt \-\-tls-key /etc/xrootd/tls.key \\
  \-\-install-systemd
.fi
Initialize without installing the unit:
.nf
xjcd init \-\-journal /var/tmp/journalcache \\
  \-\-xroot-port 1094 \-\-https-port 8443 \\
  \-\-tls-cert /etc/xrootd/tls.crt \-\-tls-key /etc/xrootd/tls.key
.fi
Manual systemd install:
.nf
sudo install \-m 0644 /var/tmp/journalcache/.xjc/etc/xjcd.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable \-\-now xjcd.service
.fi
Re-render after editing \fIstate.conf\fR:
.nf
xjcd render \-\-journal /var/tmp/journalcache
sudo systemctl restart xjcd.service
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XRD_JOURNALCACHE_CACHE
Default journal root when \fB\-\-journal\fR is omitted.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $journal/.xjc/state.conf
Bootstrap state.
.TP
.I $journal/.xjc/policy.conf
Runtime policy file.
.TP
.I $journal/.xjc/etc/
Generated configuration directory.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/xjcd.service
Default install target for \fB\-\-install-systemd\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xjc (1),
.BR xrootd (8),
.BR xrdfs (1)

Documentation: JournalCache plugin README and \fIhtml/index.html\fR under
\fIXrdClJournalCachePlugin\fR.
